Refactor of Tagging Section (#7516)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/tagging/unified_service_tagging.md

---
title: Unified Service Tagging
kind: documentation
aliases:
- /tagging/unified_service_tagging
further_reading:
- link: "/tagging/using_tags"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to use tags in the Datadog UI"
- link: "/blog/autodiscovery-docker-monitoring"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Learn more about Autodiscovery"
---

## Overview
Unified service tagging ties Datadog telemetry together through the use of three [reserved tags][1]: `env`, `service`, and `version`. These tags allow you to correlate related logs and traces by version of a service, trace a spike in CPU usage to corresponding areas of a service, and organize infrastructure more effectively.

> The [environment variables][2] `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` form a single point of configuration for all telemetry emitted directly from your service's runtime: [traces][3], [logs][4], and [Statsd metrics][5]. These variables are specific to the runtime of your service. They allow you to define core tagging configuration within your application, rather than across your application and the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [environment variables][2] `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` form a single point of configuration for all telemetry emitted directly from your service's runtime: [traces][3], [logs][4], and [StatsD metrics][5]. These variables are specific to the runtime of your service. They allow you to define core tagging configuration within your application, rather than across your application and the Agent.
```

> The [environment variables][2] `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` form a single point of configuration for all telemetry emitted directly from your service's runtime: [traces][3], [logs][4], and [Statsd metrics][5]. These variables are specific to the runtime of your service. They allow you to define core tagging configuration within your application, rather than across your application and the agent.

Reviewer 2: Does setting `DD_SERVICE` work for integrations, @ofek?

Reviewer 3: yes

When available, version is added to logs like any other tag.

At the very least they will be used by the APM and [Dogstatsd clients][6] to tag trace data and statsd metrics with `env`, `service`, and `version`. If enabled, the APM tracer will also inject the values of these variables into your logs.

Depending on your CI/CD pipeline and how you run your service (e.g., as a binary or through a Docker container), you may wish to set these environment variables depending on whether your environment is [containerized](#containerized-environment) or [non-containerized](#non-containerized-environment).

{{< img src="tagging/unified_service_tagging/overview.gif" alt="Unified Service Tagging"  >}}

## Requirements

- Unified service tagging requires knowledge of tagging and assigning tags. If you are unsure of how to configure tags, read the [Getting Started with Tagging][7] guide and [Assigning tags][8] documentation before proceeding to configuration.

> - Unified service tagging requires setup of the [Datadog agent][9].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unified service tagging requires setup of the [Datadog Agent][9].
```

- This guide requires [Autodiscovery][10] for unified service tagging in a containerized environment.

## Recommendations

If you're using [connected Logs and Traces][11], it is recommended to enable automatic logs injection. The APM tracer will then automatically add these fields to your logs, thereby eliminating manual configuration for those fields elsewhere.

## Configuration

### Containerized environment

#### Autodiscovery

In containerized environments, [Autodiscovery][10] tags `env`, `service`, and `version` from standard labels and environment variables. Since the Agent associates data collected with specific containers, the configuration for the standard tags can conveniently reside within the container's metadata.

> Additionally, the autodiscovered tags for `env`, `service`, and `version` are added to all data generated by integration or logs checks. You will not need to add these tags to each check's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the Autodiscovered tags for `env`, `service`, and `version` are added to all data generated by integration or logs checks. You will not need to add these tags to each check's configuration.
```

#### Set the variables

While service is generally "constant", `env` and `version` might be determined at build time or afterwards. If known at build time, these parameters could be "baked" into a container's image. Since the environment variables would become part of the image, they'd be available when the container is started. Consider this as an option if injecting the environment variables later on is not possible.

Conversely, it might be more convenient to inject the `DD_*` environment variables at deploy time. If so, you can leverage the relevant API for your containerized infrastructure.

**Note**: It's recommend to set **all three environment variables at the same time and place** if possible. This helps to control consistency across configuration files for all of your applications.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

##### Pod-level metrics
Add the following standard labels (`tags.datadoghq.com`) to the pod spec of a Deployment, StatefulSet, or Job.

```yaml
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        tags.datadoghq.com/env: <ENV>
        tags.datadoghq.com/service: <SERVICE>
        tags.datadoghq.com/version: <VERSION>
```

> These labels will cover pod-level Kubernetes CPU/Memory/Network/Disk metrics and will be used for injecting `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` into your service's container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These labels cover pod-level Kubernetes CPU, memory, network, and disk metrics, and are used for injecting `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` into your service's container.
```

If you have multiple containers per pod, you can specify standard labels by container:

```yaml
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.env
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.service
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.version
```

##### State metrics

For [Kubernetes State Metrics][1], add the same standard labels to the collection of labels for the parent resource (e.g., Deployment).

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    tags.datadoghq.com/env: <ENV>
    tags.datadoghq.com/service: <SERVICE>
    tags.datadoghq.com/version: <VERSION>
spec:
  <Block from above>
```

> ##### APM Tracer / Statsd client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### APM Tracer / StatsD client
```

> [APM Tracer][2] and [statsd client][3] environment variables can be sourced from the same labels by using the [Kubernetes's downward API][4] in the format below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[APM Tracer][2] and [statsd client][3] environment variables can be sourced from the same labels by using the [Kubernetes's downward API][4] in the format below:
```
```suggestion
[APM Tracer][2] and [StatsD client][3] environment variables can be sourced from the same labels by using the [Kubernetes's downward API][4] in the format below:
```

```yaml
    containers:
    -  ...
       env:
            - name: DD_ENV
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/env']
            - name: DD_SERVICE
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/service']
            - name: DD_VERSION
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/version']
```

[1]: /agent/kubernetes/data_collected/#kube-state-metrics
[2]: /tracing/send_traces/
[3]: /integrations/statsd/
[4]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/downward-api-volume-expose-pod-information/#the-downward-api
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Docker" %}}

> To achieve a single point of configuration across all telemetry, make `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` available within your container's runtime environment. As long as the agent can access your container's [Docker socket][1], it will be able to detect the environment variables and map them to the standard tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve a single point of configuration across all telemetry, make `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` available within your container's runtime environment. As long as the Agent can access your container's [Docker socket][1], it will be able to detect the environment variables and map them to the standard tags.
```

> If your service has no need for the DD environment variables (e.g., 3rd party software like Redis, PostgreSQL, Nginx, and applications not traced by APM), you can instead use Docker labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your service has no need for the Datadog environment variables (for example, third party software like Redis, PostgreSQL, NGINX, and applications not traced by APM), you can instead use Docker labels:
```

          }
        ]
```

If there are containers that will not benefit from using the environment variables in the application runtime, you can instead use Docker labels:

```yaml
        "dockerLabels": {
          "com.datadoghq.tags.env": "<ENV>",
          "com.datadoghq.tags.service": "<SERVICE>",
          "com.datadoghq.tags.version": "<VERSION>"
        }
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Non-containerized environment

#### Set the variables
Depending on how you build and deploy your services' binaries or executables, you may have several options available for setting `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION`. Since you may run one or more services per host, we recommend that these environment variables be scoped to a single process.

You may elect export the environment variables in the command for your executable:

`DD_ENV=<env> DD_SERVICE=<service> DD_VERSION=<version> /bin/my-service`

Or you might use [Chef][12], [Ansible][13], or another orchestration tool to populate a service's systemd or initd configuration file with the `DD` environment variables. That way when the service process is started it will have access to those variables.

> #### Configure traces, logs, Statsd metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure traces, logs, StatsD metrics
```

**Note: There can only be one service per span.** Trace metrics generally have a single service as well. However, if you have a different service defined in your hosts' tags, that configured service tag will show up on all trace metrics emitted from that host.

[1]: /tracing/send_traces/
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Logs" %}}

If you already have [traces enabled for logs injection][1], it will also inject `env`, `service`, and `version` into your logs.

If you already have logs configuration checks defined similarly to the example below, you **do not** need to define `service`:

```yaml
logs:
  - type: file
    path: "/path/to/your/log.log"
    source: python
    log_processing_rules:
      ...
    tags:
      ...
```

This configuration will allow existing configurations, such as log processing rules or other tags, to continue to work exactly the same.

If you do not wish to use automatic log injection from the APM tracer, you also have the option of [manually injecting these fields into logs][2].

[1]: /tracing/connect_logs_and_traces/
[2]: /tracing/connect_logs_and_traces/java?tab=log4j2#manual-trace-id-injection
{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab "Statsd" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "StatsD" %}}
```

[Autodiscovery][7] is recommended ensure consistent container monitoring when shifting from host to host. Autodiscovery also automatically identifies services running on a specific container and gathers data from those services. Adding standard labels for unified tagging in your Autodiscovery template will automatically assign `env`, `service`, and `versions` to all of your services.

**Note**: While `service` is generally "constant", `env` and `version` might be determined at build time or afterwards. If known at build time, these parameters can be set within a container's image. Since the environment variables become part of the image, they're available when the container is started. Consider this as an option if injecting the environment variables later on is not possible. Conversely, it might be more convenient to inject the `DD_*` environment variables at deploy time. If so, you can leverage the relevant [API][8] for your containerized infrastructure.

> #### Adding labels

Author: ```suggestion
#### Adding environment variables and labels
```

---
title: Unified Service Tagging
kind: documentation
aliases:
- /tagging/unified_service_tagging
further_reading:
- link: "/tagging/using_tags"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to use tags in the Datadog UI"
- link: "/blog/autodiscovery-docker-monitoring"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Learn more about Autodiscovery"
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer 4: This is a very long overview with section that are specific to products. We might want to revisit the structure so that the overview remain generic and then have more targeted sections.

WDYT?

> Unified service tagging ties Datadog telemetry together through the use of three [reserved tags][1]: `env`, `service`, and `version`. These tags allow you to correlate related logs and traces by version of a service, trace a spike in CPU usage to corresponding areas of a service, and organize infrastructure more effectively.

Reviewer 4: Do we only correlate logs and traces? I thought metrics were included as well.

> The [environment variables][2] `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` form a single point of configuration for all telemetry emitted directly from your service's runtime: [traces][3], [logs][4], and [StatsD metrics][5]. These variables are specific to the runtime of your service. They allow you to define core tagging configuration within your application, rather than across your application and the Agent.

Reviewer 4: `These variables are specific to the runtime of your service.` what does this mean exactly? Do we have different environment variable based on the language used?

`They allow you to define core tagging configuration within your application, rather than across your application and the Agent.` Seems to be very APM focused as this is the only place where there is code level configuration.

Could we clarify this by saying that using those environment variable helps to configure all of this once for all data types instead of configuring once for every product?

> When spans are configured with `DD_VERSION`, the tracer will add version to all spans that fall under the service that "owns" the tracer (generally DD_SERVICE). This means that if your service creates spans with the name of an external service, those spans will not receive version as a tag. As long as version is present in spans, it will be added to trace metrics generated from those spans. The version can be added manually in-code or automatically by the tracer.

Reviewer 4: What are spans?

We should not target product specific elements into an overview and assume that users do not know Datadog specific terminology.
Let's make sure that we are as explicit as possible and only introduce specific notion when required.

I would move this into a `Set the version` section

When available, version is added to logs like any other tag.

> At the very least they will be used by the APM and [Dogstatsd clients][6] to tag trace data and statsd metrics with `env`, `service`, and `version`. If enabled, the APM tracer will also inject the values of these variables into your logs.

Reviewer 4: What does `When available` mean?

Which configuration are we referring to? How are those value injected so that it is `available`?

Not saying we should answer here but more highlighting why this is too specific for an introduction. Let's always assume that a new user that starts plugging this for the first time can understand and follow the steps.

Depending on your CI/CD pipeline and how you run your service (e.g., as a binary or through a Docker container), you may wish to set these environment variables depending on whether your environment is [containerized](#containerized-environment) or [non-containerized](#non-containerized-environment).

{{< img src="tagging/unified_service_tagging/overview.gif" alt="Unified Service Tagging"  >}}

## Requirements

> - Unified service tagging requires knowledge of tagging and assigning tags. If you are unsure of how to configure tags, read the [Getting Started with Tagging][7] guide and [Assigning tags][8] documentation before proceeding to configuration.
> 
> - Unified service tagging requires setup of the [Datadog Agent][9].
> 
> - This guide requires [Autodiscovery][10] for unified service tagging in a containerized environment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Unified service tagging requires knowledge of tagging and assigning tags. If you are unsure of how to configure tags, read the [Getting Started with Tagging][7] guide and [Assigning tags][8] documentation before proceeding to configuration.

- Unified service tagging requires setup of the [Datadog Agent][9].

- This guide leverages [Autodiscovery][10] for unified service tagging in a containerized environment.
```

> ## Recommendations

Reviewer 4: Sounds weird to have a recommendation before even explaining what we are doing.

We could add this in the `CONFIGURING TRACES, LOGS, AND STATSD METRICS` what do you think?

If you're using [connected Logs and Traces][11], it is recommended to enable automatic logs injection. The APM tracer will then automatically add these fields to your logs, thereby eliminating manual configuration for those fields elsewhere.

## Configuration

> ### Containerized environment

Reviewer 4: Should we use tabs to split between containerised and non-containerised installations?

(Not sure if tabs allow to use section within them

#### Autodiscovery

In containerized environments, [Autodiscovery][10] tags `env`, `service`, and `version` from standard labels and environment variables. Since the Agent associates data collected with specific containers, the configuration for the standard tags can conveniently reside within the container's metadata.

Additionally, the Autodiscovered tags for `env`, `service`, and `version` are added to all data generated by integration or logs checks. You will not need to add these tags to each check's configuration.

> #### Setting variables

Reviewer 4: I would recommend a summary of the different option here and explain the hierarchical impact of each. Indeed it is not clear that you can set it on the node, on the pod, on the container, in the code and which one wins if you have multiple configuration.

Reviewer 4: Also I don't see any reference to `pod annotations` which is the term used in the autodiscovery documentation.

> While service is generally "constant", `env` and `version` might be determined at build time or afterwards. If known at build time, these parameters could be "baked" into a container's image. Since the environment variables would become part of the image, they'd be available when the container is started. Consider this as an option if injecting the environment variables later on is not possible.

Reviewer 4: ```
Since the environment variables would become part of the image, they'd be available when the container is started. Consider this as an option if injecting the environment variables later on is not possible.
```

Sounds like a very specific case that might require more instruction on how to get it to work. Do we want this in an introduction or should we move it to a specific part later in the guide?

> Conversely, it might be more convenient to inject the `DD_*` environment variables at deploy time. If so, you can leverage the relevant API for your containerized infrastructure.

Reviewer 4: What does this mean? 

If we can be more explicit let's be. Are we talking about the different way environment variable can be set in containerised environment?

> **Note**: It's recommend to set **all three environment variables at the same time and place** if possible. This helps to control consistency across configuration files for all of your applications.

Reviewer 4: If it is recommended, let's remove `if possible`

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

> ##### Pod-level metrics

Reviewer 4: I would recommend tabs instead of sections.

Also, setting the tags here will also impact logs and traces right?

Add the following standard labels (`tags.datadoghq.com`) to the pod spec of a Deployment, StatefulSet, or Job.

```yaml
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        tags.datadoghq.com/env: <ENV>
        tags.datadoghq.com/service: <SERVICE>
        tags.datadoghq.com/version: <VERSION>
```
These labels cover pod-level Kubernetes CPU, memory, network, and disk metrics, and are used for injecting `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` into your service's container.

If you have multiple containers per pod, you can specify standard labels by container:

```yaml
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.env
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.service
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.version
```

> ##### State metrics

Reviewer 4: Does it really only impact metrics?

For [Kubernetes State Metrics][1], add the same standard labels to the collection of labels for the parent resource (e.g., Deployment).

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    tags.datadoghq.com/env: <ENV>
    tags.datadoghq.com/service: <SERVICE>
    tags.datadoghq.com/version: <VERSION>
spec:
  <Block from above>
```

> ##### APM Tracer / StatsD client

Reviewer 4: Does it only work for APM and StatsD metrics?

#### Configuring traces, logs, and StatsD metrics

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Traces" %}}

As a best practice, it is recommended to configure your [APM tracer][1] with `DD_ENV` as it keeps the definition of `env` closer to the application that is generating the traces. This method allows the `env` tag to be sourced automatically from a tag in the span metadata.

**Note: There can only be one service per span.** Trace metrics generally have a single service as well. However, if you have a different service defined in your hosts' tags, that configured service tag will show up on all trace metrics emitted from that host.

[1]: /tracing/send_traces/
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Logs" %}}

If you already have [traces enabled for logs injection][1], it will also inject `env`, `service`, and `version` into your logs.

If you already have logs configuration checks defined similarly to the example below, you **do not** need to define `service`:

```yaml
logs:
  - type: file
    path: "/path/to/your/log.log"
    source: python
    log_processing_rules:
      ...
    tags:

>       ...

Reviewer 4: Don't we support the `init_config` section as well?

I would have hope in this section that we would have one example with `init config` working for all data types.

And then more details about how to override the value for logs and APM with injection from code to configure it without going through the agent.

**Why this structure?**

Mostly because there are two targets here:

1. Devops that have access to both the code and agent configuration. Setting everything up in the agent is possible and potentially the recommended way
2. Separated Dev | infrastructure teams where the deployment is handled by infra which do not have access to service, version information which then must be injected by developers directly.

Which is why I would say that we would need to explicitely call out the two setups.

```

This configuration will allow existing configurations, such as log processing rules or other tags, to continue to work exactly the same.

If you do not wish to use automatic log injection from the APM tracer, you also have the option of [manually injecting these fields into logs][2].

[1]: /tracing/connect_logs_and_traces/
[2]: /tracing/connect_logs_and_traces/java?tab=log4j2#manual-trace-id-injection
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "StatsD" %}}

Tags are added in an append-only fashion for [custom statsd metrics][1]. For example, if you have two different values for env, the metrics will be tagged with both envs. There is no order in which one tag will override another of the same name.

[1]: /developers/metrics/
{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Configuring integrations

To unify telemetry across your environment based on integration, configure the `service` tag based on your agent version:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Agent > v7.18/v6.18" %}}

> Define `service` under `init_config` in your `conf.yaml` file:

Reviewer 4: This could actually be integrated in the previous section on how to override it for metrics (after explaining how to do it for logs and traces).

However We should strongly push towards the `init_config` section.
Overriding the service in the `instances` is only for the multiple instances case and might be more for an FAQ article which would link to.

Author: @olivielpeau Going off of our conversation yesterday, is what Nils is referring to the best way to configure? Instead of by version, it'd be by the case (single vs. multiple instances)?

---
title: Unified Service Tagging
kind: documentation
aliases:
- /tagging/unified_service_tagging
further_reading:
- link: "/tagging/using_tags"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to use tags in the Datadog UI"
- link: "/blog/autodiscovery-docker-monitoring"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Learn more about Autodiscovery"
---

## Overview
Unified service tagging ties Datadog telemetry together through the use of three [reserved tags][1]: `env`, `service`, and `version`. By adding these tags to your [Datadog Agent's][2] configuration file, you can troubleshoot issues and view data pertaining to your services, based on environment or version, in a unified fashion within the Datadog app. Once these tags are configured you'll be able to do things like filter your logs, traces, and metrics by `service` and `version` to see the total service requests and the errors by version.

### Requirements

- Unified service tagging requires knowledge of configuring tags. If you are unsure of how to configure tags, read the [Getting Started with Tagging][3] guide and [Assigning tags][4] documentation before proceeding to configuration.

- Unified service tagging requires the [Datadog Agent][5].

> {{< img src="tagging/unified_service_tagging/overview.gif" alt="Unified Service Tagging"  >}}

Reviewer 5: Can we move this gif towards the top of the page?

## Configuration

> With unified service tagging, the `service` tag is configured with `env` and `version` at container or top-level to automatically apply these tags to all metrics, logs, and traces for all services. The Datadog Agent uses [environment variables][6], which are in `key:value` pairs, to configure tags for the Datadog app. In containerized environments using [Autodiscovery][7], the agent uses Kubernetes/Docker labels or environment variables to configure tags.

Reviewer 5: What do we mean by the `key:value` pairs for the agent's environment variables? I think only one agent env var does that:
```
DD_TAGS = "key:value,key2:value2"
```

Maybe we should phrase this paragraph around quickly summarizing per environment the gist of how things work:
> Unified service tagging relies on configuring the `service`, `env`, and `version` tags.
> To properly configure unified tagging, ...

I think we can go into the details of what the container labels and agent config files are in the non-containerized and containerized sections.

kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    tags.datadoghq.com/env: <ENV>
    tags.datadoghq.com/service: <SERVICE>
    tags.datadoghq.com/version: <VERSION>
spec:
  <Block from above>
```

###### APM Tracer / StatsD client

[APM Tracer][3] and [StatsD client][4] environment variables can be sourced from the same labels by using the [Kubernetes's downward API][5] in the format below:

```yaml
    containers:
    -  ...
       env:
            - name: DD_ENV
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/env']
            - name: DD_SERVICE
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/service']
            - name: DD_VERSION
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/version']
```

[1]: /agent/faq/auto_conf/
[2]: /agent/kubernetes/data_collected/#kube-state-metrics
[3]: /tracing/send_traces/
[4]: /integrations/statsd/
[5]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/downward-api-volume-expose-pod-information/#the-downward-api
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Docker" %}}

> To achieve a single point of configuration across all telemetry, make `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` available within your container's runtime environment. As long as the agent can access your container's Docker socket, it will be able to detect the environment variables and map them to the standard tags. These variables can be set in the Docker image:

Reviewer 5: One thing occurred to me: technically this is only true if folks use logs injection.

Otherwise their logs won't properly get a `service` attribute. They'd either need:
```
com.datadoghq.tags.service: <service>
```
or
```
com.datadoghq.logs: '{"service": "<SERVICE>", ...}'
```

We might want to add a note encouraging logs injection (especially for APM folks, who might not be benefitting from that connection yet). If logs injection isn't desired, we can then say that there is a couple of options available.

---
title: Unified Service Tagging
kind: documentation
aliases:
- /tagging/unified_service_tagging
further_reading:
- link: "/tagging/using_tags"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to use tags in the Datadog UI"
- link: "/blog/autodiscovery-docker-monitoring"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Learn more about Autodiscovery"
---

## Overview

> Unified service tagging ties Datadog telemetry together through the use of three [reserved tags][1]: `env`, `service`, and `version`. By adding these tags to your [Datadog Agent's][2] configuration file, you can troubleshoot issues and view data pertaining to your services, based on environment or version, in a unified fashion within the Datadog app. Once these tags are configured you'll be able to do things like filter your logs, traces, and metrics by `service` and `version` to see the total service requests and the errors by version.

Author: ```suggestion
Unified service tagging ties Datadog telemetry together through the use of three [reserved tags][1]: `env`, `service`, and `version`. With these three tags you can: 

- Identify deployment impact with trace and container metrics filtered by version
- Navigate seamlessly across traces, metrics, and logs with consistent tags
- View service data based on environment or version in a unified fashion within the Datadog app

By adding these tags to your [Datadog Agent's][2] configuration file, you can troubleshoot issues and view data pertaining to your services, based on environment or version, in a unified fashion within the Datadog app. Once these tags are configured you'll be able to do things like filter your logs, traces, and metrics by `service` and `version` to see the total service requests and the errors by version.
```

---
title: Unified Service Tagging
kind: documentation
aliases:
- /tagging/unified_service_tagging
further_reading:
- link: "/tagging/using_tags"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to use tags in the Datadog UI"
- link: "/blog/autodiscovery-docker-monitoring"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Learn more about Autodiscovery"
---

## Overview
Unified service tagging ties Datadog telemetry together through the use of three [reserved tags][1]: `env`, `service`, and `version`. By adding these tags to your [Datadog Agent's][2] configuration file, you can troubleshoot issues and view data pertaining to your services, based on environment or version, in a unified fashion within the Datadog app. Once these tags are configured you'll be able to do things like filter your logs, traces, and metrics by `service` and `version` to see the total service requests and the errors by version.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

{{< img src="tagging/unified_service_tagging/overview.gif" alt="Unified Service Tagging"  >}}
```

### Requirements

- Unified service tagging requires knowledge of configuring tags. If you are unsure of how to configure tags, read the [Getting Started with Tagging][3] guide and [Assigning tags][4] documentation before proceeding to configuration.

- Unified service tagging requires setup of the [Datadog Agent][5].

> {{< img src="tagging/unified_service_tagging/overview.gif" alt="Unified Service Tagging"  >}}

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Configuration

> With unified service tagging, the `service` tag is configured with `env` and `version` at container or top-level to automatically apply these tags to all metrics, logs, and traces for all services. The Datadog Agent uses [environment variables][6], which are in `key:value` pairs, to configure tags for the Datadog app. In containerized environments using [Autodiscovery][7], the agent uses Kubernetes/Docker labels or environment variables to configure tags.

Author: ```suggestion
With unified service tagging, the `service` tag is configured with `env` and `version` at container or top-level to automatically apply these tags to all metrics, logs, and traces for all services. In containerized environments using [Autodiscovery][7], the agent uses Kubernetes/Docker labels or environment variables to configure tags.
```

---

## Overview
Unified service tagging ties Datadog telemetry together through the use of three [reserved tags][1]: `env`, `service`, and `version`. With these three tags you can:
- Identify deployment impact with trace and container metrics filtered by version
- Navigate seamlessly across traces, metrics, and logs with consistent tags
- View service data based on environment or version in a unified fashion within the Datadog app

{{< img src="tagging/unified_service_tagging/overview.gif" alt="Unified Service Tagging"  >}}

### Requirements

- Unified service tagging requires setup of the [Datadog Agent][3].

- Unified service tagging requires knowledge of configuring tags. If you are unsure of how to configure tags, read the [Getting Started with Tagging][4] guide and [Assigning Tags][5] documentation before proceeding to configuration.

- If you wish to unify your entire environment across all areas (metrics, logs, and traces), it is recommended to first set up [automatic trace and span ID injection][6] to connect your logs and traces. **Note**: The Java, Ruby, and PHP Tracer do not currently support configuration of unified service tagging for logs.

## Configuration

> With unified service tagging, the `service` tag is configured with `env` and `version` at container or top-level to automatically apply these tags to all metrics, logs, and traces for your services.

Author: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
com.datadoghq.tags.env
com.datadoghq.tags.service
com.datadoghq.tags.version
```

As explained in the full configuration, these labels can be set in a Dockerfile or as arguments for launching the container.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "ECS" %}}
##### Full configuration

Set the `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` environment variables and corresponding Docker labels in your container's runtime environment to your get the full range of unified service tagging. For instance, you can set all of this configuration in one place through your ECS task definition:

```json
"environment": [
  {
    "name": "DD_ENV",
    "value": "<ENV>"
  },
  {
    "name": "DD_SERVICE",
    "value": "<SERVICE>"
  },
  {
    "name": "DD_VERSION",
    "value": "<VERSION>"
  }
]

"dockerLabels": {
  "com.datadoghq.tags.env": "<ENV>",
  "com.datadoghq.tags.service": "<SERVICE>",
  "com.datadoghq.tags.version": "<VERSION>"
```

##### Partial configuration

If your service has no need for the Datadog environment variables (for example, third party software like Redis, PostgreSQL, NGINX, and applications not traced by APM) you can just use the Docker labels in your ECS task definition:

> ```json

Author: ```suggestion
```
```
